There we go.
What's up, everyone?
Welcome to another episode
of Adventures in DevOps.
Warren, thanks for joining me again.
Yeah,
I think you don't need to thank me
every time I decide to show up.
I know we said that we were
going to have maybe a cool
fact at the beginning of every episode,
and I try to come up with one,
although I do believe last
time Jillian committed to
bringing the fact.
Maybe it's a coincidence
that she's just not here today.
I will have to step in and
share something.
I forgot the pin for my
backup phone and I didn't
remember how many digits it was.
And on Android,
apparently you can keep going forever.
So I was on one hundred and
fifty attempts.
of trying to guess what this
pin is and it wasn't like
like I have no I don't care
about factory resetting it
but you know I just wanted
to see like can I get it
and actually a hundred and
fifty one I finally got it
I had up the pit the pin
size to twelve digits and
like that was like a
realization for me so you
know if you forget your
android pin just keep
trying there's there's no
there's no time I mean
there's a thirty second
timeout prep um per attempt
but other than that you
just keep going so is that
like manual brute force attack
Is that the category this would fall into?
Yeah, for sure.
Right on.
Cool.
I'm excited about today's episode.
Joining us today,
we have Matt Lea from
Schematical and from cloudwargames.com.
Looking at your background here, Matt,
co-founder of drawnby.ai,
author of shiporgetoffthepot.com,
and then gymnastics coach
for eighteen years.
and out of Madison, Wisconsin.
Welcome Matt.
Thanks.
Thanks for having me.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, shipper get off the pod.com.
I'm not doing any more, but, uh, the, um,
I actually did write a book
on coaching gymnastics called hacking,
fear, tips, tricks, and strategies,
how to help high performing
athletes through mental issues.
So fun facts.
Right on.
My youngest son did gymnastics from,
I think,
from when he was about ten all
the way up until his senior
year in high school.
And his senior year, I mean,
you're probably well aware of this,
like the number of
collegiate positions for
men's gymnastics is very, very small.
And so he knew that that
wasn't going to get him
anywhere and he wanted to participate and
some kind of activity at
school because for his entire education,
he would get out of school,
his mom would be waiting in
the parking lot and she
would drive him an hour to
the gymnastics facility and
he would work out for four
hours doing his homework in the car.
And that was his life growing up.
So his senior year,
he wanted to do something
that was school related and
that was the end of his
gymnastics career.
But it's a commitment and
there's so much mental to it.
Absolutely.
Yeah, it's not an uncommon story.
Unfortunately,
men's gymnastics is just not
doing as well these days.
Too many competitors, this sport,
parkour and other things.
Right, for sure.
Yeah.
And I think the commitment
to it just kind of kind of
just like self filters, you know,
so that when you do get to
those people that are there,
you've got some very
committed individuals.
Yeah, you play football, you play soccer,
no one plays gymnastics.
Right.
Fair point.
Cool.
So tell us a little bit about,
actually first,
it looks like you've been
in Wisconsin for a long time.
Are you a Wisconsin native?
Yeah, born and raised.
I've traveled the world,
but I keep coming back here
and about four years settled down,
bought a house out in the countryside,
a little north of Madison.
and been loving it.
Right on.
Madison is fantastic.
I lived there for two years,
and I will say that I love
being there in the summer.
That's the only qualifier that I find.
Summer and fall, yeah.
You can get this time of year,
and that is nice.
What's your current temperature today?
Oh, it's actually really nice.
I was on site earlier.
I let the dogs out,
and I do some jumping jacks to wake up,
get myself ready for the podcast, and
Got to be around ten degrees.
So it's actually very
pleasant compared to the
year twenty we were close to a week ago.
Yeah, that's balmy.
Right on.
So cloud.
I'm going to mess up the name.
Damn it.
Sorry about that.
Cloudwargames.com.
Tell us a little bit about that.
And don't feel bad about
messing with the games.
I keep calling it Cloud
Watch Games because I'm so used to it.
I stay with Cloud Watch all
day long on AWS, Amazon Web Services.
and uh you know with cloud
war games yeah so this um
goes back a little bit if
you don't mind me going
back I had a team I was
running uh I think I had
like eleven people on staff
and I was I needed to come
up with a training um idea
a project for that so I've
come up with a couple
different games over the
years and different tools
to help out my devs and so
one of them was the
predecessor to cloudboard
games which is where I
would take a whiteboard and draw
and dragon-style game with them.
And what I did,
besides just writing down
all these different things,
is I had hundreds of
scenarios of things that
had gone horribly wrong
over the years that I would
then throw at them.
And I'd say something like,
I'd give them a brief,
which would be like, all of a sudden,
your website's timing out.
You know, what is that?
And they'd have to walk
through and tell me how
they wanted to solve it.
And so this one, in this case,
all rule from one of the
various instances or
resources running there and
sort of time out.
So I've got all these other
ones incident cannot deploy.
And so it's, you know,
you don't get a lot of
information a lot of times
when people come to you
saying there's a problem.
Like at the time it's
customer service person saying our guys,
you know,
our shopping cart is
disappearing randomly for
our e-commerce store.
People all of a sudden the
shopping cart's empty, you know,
so using that,
master.
And it was a pretty good training tool.
You can really figure out who was,
you know, thinking outside the box,
who was like really
analytical or who just kind of,
I don't know, you know,
it turned out to be a great
sales tool as well.
You walk the client through
this and they're like, that can go wrong.
Like that can happen.
You're like, yeah, I can.
What would you do?
I don't know.
I guess I'd call you.
All right.
So that is how it started.
Then, uh,
Literally last Thursday,
I was on a mastermind group,
and I was talking about some goals I got.
I was going to launch a
community for people to
want to learn AWS.
I was telling them about my
idea for WarGames,
which is where we spin up
actual infrastructure,
like AWS infrastructure.
Because we've got infrastructure as code.
It's not like I have to manually do this.
I just spin it up,
and then I basically knock
down a part of it or fill
up a database or remove a
security group or something
or DDoS attack myself for the fun of it.
And then people will, the participants,
the hot seat participants,
which people with their cameras on,
ideally,
will be sitting there and they'll be like,
hey, they'll try and fix it.
And there's a couple different variables.
I've got a beginner, intermediate,
and advanced.
So like the beginner one,
maybe they would just talk
to me and I'll fix it.
I might view the screen.
The advanced ones,
I'll give them the actual
AWS keys and say, here you go.
Go ahead and fix it.
available to all ages uh so
I'm getting creative with
it but yeah that was the
impetus of uh oh yeah so
friday I bought the domain
cloudworkdance.com and then
I set it up and sent out a
mailing list to my measly
hundred subscribers and I
had the biggest reaction
I've ever seen I've got
people signing up coming
out of the woodwork I have
no idea who they are and uh
then I emailed you guys and
then you guys were like you
want to be on so here I am
five days later and uh
Well, I'm glad it's going, you know,
so quickly for you, you know,
to have a hundred different
scenarios that must have
taken quite a long time.
Like,
I'm just thinking back throughout my
career and like,
I don't know if I could
come up with like a hundred
things that had gone wrong
and have the whole scenario.
I mean, for sure,
more than a hundred things
have gone wrong in my career.
It's just, you know,
having remembered them or
have written them down,
like that must have taken
some effort on your part.
I am a compulsive.
I mean,
I think I showed you guys in the preview.
I am a compulsive note taker.
and journaler and whatnot.
I actually have multiple journals.
I have a journal by the side of my bed,
journal here, journal there.
I've got business notebooks, I guess.
So I piece it together.
And you know, if I'm not, I write it down.
If there's another scenario,
if something goes wrong,
I also make a comic about it sometimes,
so.
Right, yeah,
you shared some of your comics
with us when we were
emailing back and forth.
Are those something you publish regularly?
I try and do them.
I was doing them twice a week,
but now that my content
schedule's changed and I'm
doing more video content publicly, again,
I'm probably only going to do once a week,
but we'll see.
Right on.
That's still a lot.
That's, you know, fifty-two a year.
That's still a lot of content.
I'll be honest.
They're not all bangers,
but some of them take up.
Do you find that through
through your I mean,
having kept in journals of
all of the different
scenarios and what had happened,
what went wrong and how it was fixed,
like did that have a
beneficial impact for your career?
Or do you just find that you
are able to consume that
information now to make the
cloud war games?
I mean, I had thought,
and this idea I had thought
about coming back to for a long time.
So I have been keeping them.
And a lot of times now, I mean,
I would just write a deal
to my deal emailing list.
If there's something that
goes wrong or something I fear about,
here's one that I want to
really run a snare through
is the S-III ransomware
attack that's out there right now.
I'm going to attack myself with that.
That should be fun.
But yeah,
I write it down and mail it out
to people.
So now, yeah,
I guess collecting all that
data has been helpful.
I mean, in the last year, I've been better
I hired a business coach,
and I've been better at
sharing that information.
Before,
I'd write it down just because I
specifically take notes.
And then now,
it's like I'm actually
finding and helping other
people get updates on Amazon,
get updates on things I'm
an expert in that I enjoy doing.
So yes,
I think it's got a beneficial impact,
but I didn't really
capitalize on that until fairly recently.
Yeah, I mean,
the fact you just mentioned
this like I can't believe I
haven't been keeping track
of every single bug that
I've run into that has some sort of,
you know, out as it turns out, you know,
and then a story because I
feel like there is some
novel interesting thing
there that is worth sharing and.
Now I'm starting to think,
would I give this advice to
even experienced senior engineers?
Oh, you know what?
Start keeping a personal
journal of these sorts of things.
I usually talk about it in a
business context.
It's great to keep track of
what you're doing from a
brag standpoint so that you
can report on it during
your hopefully quarterly
performance evaluation.
You have a list already of
everything you've done.
and I think there's a lot to
be said there but I think
there's another level here
of like the interesting
technical challenges that
you had to face and how you
sort of tackled them
because like you've already
found a new opportunity
based off of what you've
written down to you know
turn into a business yeah I
mean it's a good habit to
do after action reports
especially when you're
training a junior or
something like that you
know they make a mistake
you know a fairly expensive
mistake maybe you know they
delete something they shouldn't and then
We just, you know,
let's say I got a client, you know,
their website goes down,
let's say it costs them a
hundred thousand dollars an hour.
Junior takes down that
website for a while.
They can look at it like, oh my God,
we lost all this money.
Or you just say, oh,
we invested this much into
our junior learning important lesson.
Let's have them present that
in an after action report
to the whole team.
So we got, you know,
there's a positive from it.
Here's,
you're writing the SOPs for the business,
standard operating
procedures for the business.
I don't know what not to do, you know?
That's something I try and
push towards my developers.
Fail forward faster.
Know where to fail at,
where you can make mistakes at.
Fail on staging.
Nuke staging out of the
water and slow down our dev
team for a day still costs
us less than if you nuked
production for even a few minutes.
Learn where to fail, learn how to fail.
This is one of those rants
you get worried about.
I want to come back to something.
There's been a couple of
things you've said that
have stood out to me,
and I want to come back to those,
even though they have
nothing to do with cloudwargames.com.
You mentioned that you're in
a mastermind and then you
also talked about your journaling.
And those are two of like
the consistent things that
like if you study like high impact,
high performing people like
those two things.
come up over and over again.
So how did you get into a
mastermind and what does
that look like for you?
Uh, I'm actually in several, um, and, uh,
we can do a whole other
podcast on the consulting side of things,
instruction, your business,
which I'm going to save for another time.
But, uh, there, there's one where I am, uh,
a group coaching, uh, where,
where they do live Q and
A's and stuff like that aimed at solo, um,
consultants, expertise,
people who want to,
with themselves as experts.
I would never call myself the expert,
but I've been doing this a long time.
So that's a good one.
I have direct access to the
main community guy there.
And the other one is the
Room Around Robin approach,
where I found that one, I think,
through another community,
actually a third community,
where it's actually got
very limited interaction,
but they do things.
And I can give you guys the
name to some of this stuff
if you want later,
but I'm actually starting to know
I'm hoping to start another
mastermind group,
but I've kind of deprioritized that for,
uh, CTU for, um, Cloud of Oregon.
See, now I don't even remember the name.
Um, because that's,
that's got way a lot of
traction right now,
but I would strongly advise that,
especially if you're, you're,
you're going out there and
starting on your own and
you're not part of the big team.
If you're,
if you're starting your own consulting,
you need that sounding board.
I'm very fortunate to have a
informal business partner
that we have just, we are,
always bouncing ideas off each other.
Cause it can be, you know,
in a vacuum when you're
trying to get clients, it can be,
you know, seem very daunting,
seem very dark.
Yeah, for sure.
I've,
I belong to a mastermind that I've
been in for well over ten years now.
And it's, it's been,
it's been the difference in
my career because like our
sole purpose in that group
is to call each other out
on our bullshit and hold
each other accountable.
And it's made a difference.
Yeah.
We actually,
we actually did a full episode
dedicated to, uh,
Will's being called out on his bullshit.
I mean, cause there's a lot of it.
Like those, the guys in my mastermind,
they have a full-time job
calling me out on my bullshit.
Yeah.
Uh,
My most valuable people are
the people that are the bluntest with me.
They're willing to be like,
stop building developer tools, you fool.
Right?
And giving them away for free.
I think that's the important caveat there.
Yeah.
For sure.
And then on journaling,
is that a daily exercise for you?
Yep.
Let the dogs out,
and then it's pretty much
straight to journaling.
And then I've recently been
trying to do more
journaling in the evening, actually.
to close the thought loop.
I have a lot of trouble sleeping,
and I wake up in the middle of the night,
and I'm like, oh,
all these things I should do,
so right before I go to bed,
I try and write down
anything that's open-ended
here on a piece of paper,
and I've got sticky notes
on the side of the bed that I'll write,
oh, to-do, to-do, to-do,
and that way I could be like, okay,
tomorrow, Matt, we'll get to this,
Yeah,
I think there were a non-trivial
number of times where in
order to sleep well at night,
I had to write up a whole
email regarding a situation
and then just not send it.
Not send it that night.
That's the important factor there.
Yeah, for sure.
When you're frustrated,
definitely don't click send.
But, you know,
it's because those thoughts
are going around in your head,
and it's like I'm
constantly focused on whatever that is,
whatever problem it is,
whether or not I did the
right thing in that situation,
and sometimes just, I mean,
I know from a fact now,
I have to terminate those threads,
whatever the thread is that
I picked up and I started
just getting it done,
whether it's writing an email.
I use, like,
every single kind of scheduling tool
tool available.
Like I will delay emails to myself.
I will snooze them.
I will send myself future emails.
I'll use calendar events,
anything to get stuff off
of my radar and into some
sort of temporal delay so
that I can come back to it
later when I'm like at the right time.
Yeah, that's a big one.
You talk about, you know,
you're frustrated and you
write that email.
When I get frustrated with
something or possibly even
a colleague or something like that,
I write it on a sticky note
and a month later it's a comic.
So I just, you know, that's how I do.
I don't send it to them
necessarily unless it's, you know, funny.
Yeah.
No, that's great.
Right on.
So we'll come back to Cloud War Games.
You've got people signing up for it.
Is it like,
are you operating like
scheduled head-to-head
matches or is it a single
player experience?
What's the interface look like?
I like to do it with small teams.
So I'm thinking right now
we've got four people in the hot seat.
We're going to experiment
with our initial batch.
So that means I've got two events.
Four people could be on camera.
Mike's hot.
And hopefully anybody else
that wants to be in the
wait list or whatever, the gallery,
they can chat quietly.
But like I said,
I'm going to do three tiers of it.
And in the future,
I might do four people sign
up for big dinner,
four people sign up for intermediate,
four people sign up for
advanced or something.
but the,
you can kind of just hang around
if you did the beginner one
and you can listen to the
intermediate and the advanced,
but I don't want the
advanced people solving the
intermediate one instantly there.
And so the way I do it is
there'll be a pre kind of,
let's just say it's an hour long session.
First, fifteen minutes, you get in there,
you get your bearings.
You can,
I'll send out network diagrams
using my pixel art network
diagram software that I use
for my YouTube videos.
And I had a time and I'll
set up a terraform ahead of time.
So then people can get a feel for that.
Um, we get in there,
maybe you set up your dashboard, you know,
you figure out your
firefighting tools for the
first few minutes.
And then I do the brief and I say,
customer service just called and said,
you know, that we, we just sent out,
this is actually,
this is probably my first one.
So preview for those of you guys,
I don't know when this is coming out,
but preview for the first advanced one,
uh, customer service shows up and says,
we just sent out a lot of
emails from our primary
email address that people get.
and it's for a
pharmaceutical ad of some nature.
It's like that.
And we don't do that.
So what just happened?
So, and that happened to me,
that did happen to me.
And it also was a conflict.
So, you know, and then after that,
let's just say,
fifteen minutes to a half
an hour diagnosing.
So you got to do diagnosis first.
And then from there,
they got to come up with a solution.
And I'm going to give read
access to my AWS account to
anybody on there.
I'm not going to give you right access.
So you get to tell me the solution.
I'm not never giving anybody
else right access to that.
And then from there,
last fifteen minutes after action report,
you know,
I kind of give them a peek
behind the scene.
What did I do and how could
you have improved the speed
at which you diagnose the situation?
So.
Oh, that's cool.
That's cool.
Are you recording these for
creating a YouTube channel
where people can watch it after the fact?
Yes.
I mean,
one thing I thought about is that
part of the need for this
thing is that there are so
many AI-generated resumes out there.
It's tough for people, software engineers,
DevOps people,
to stand out in that stack of resumes.
Also, so many people are using AI to code.
And I'm not against that,
but the standard coding
tests don't work so well.
So this, I want them to record.
And I want them to share that,
be able to share this with
perspective hiring people.
You know, on the other side of this,
if you're hiring people,
how do you know that
they're actually able to problem solve?
Don't you want to kind of
get a feel for it?
Don't you want to see if
they are collaborative in
nature or are they more like,
I'm going to just go heads
down and not tell anybody
what I'm thinking.
You know, you want to get a feel for that.
Maybe there's, you know,
you want one or the other,
but this could be a really
powerful hiring tool, I think.
Oh yeah, for sure.
Yeah.
Cause then you get like a
little insight into what this,
what it's like to work with
this person under pressure,
which is everything that
you want to know before hiring a person,
but have no way to test it.
Yeah.
And then the flip side,
it's a great way to
inoculate yourself to stress.
I see so many developers and the, you know,
the CEO comes running in and saying,
we're losing money, we're losing money.
And they're screaming and everything.
And they're just like, Oh yeah,
they lock up, you know,
and this inoculates you from the stress.
We talk about,
dealing with this type of stress.
Because in my gymnastics career,
if you're spotting somebody
and you mess up,
you could significantly
injure or harm an athlete.
You know, this,
some rich guy loses a bunch of money,
but no one dies.
And so if you put that in that perspective,
it makes it easier to
handle this stressful situation.
I mean, for sure,
there's not a lot of
opportunity to practice
emergency situations in the tech.
Right.
And so the only time we're
in that situation is when
we really mess up.
I mean,
some companies do like there is
this idea in the industry, oh, you should,
you know, practice your run books,
you know, databases being down,
regional failures, et cetera.
But I think that a majority of companies,
the ones who need to
practice at the most
because they are in too
much in firefighting modes
are exactly the ones who
don't practice it.
Yeah.
So I mean,
this this could be more than
just a hiring tool.
Realistically,
this could be like out of
band practice for engineers
at any company to sign up and be like,
hey, you know, go through this equivalent,
you know, live training, right?
Continue education on how to
do these things.
You know how you're going to
respond in that situation
and then potentially be
graded or get opportunity
like feedback on how they can improve.
Yeah, I mean,
I could see myself being
bringing this into a large company.
and then looking at their
infrastructure setting up a
drill similar to their
infrastructure and knocking
it over and doing trainings
internally I mean there's
there's all sorts of
options I mean back to the
kind of individual side I'd
love to have a leaderboard
and championships
eventually I've got ideas
for all sorts of fun stuff
to do but yeah there's I
think there's a lot that
can be done with this could
be like the next next iteration of um
like e-gaming,
like the professional gamers.
Yeah.
You're actually not, not just,
I am a gamer obviously, but you know,
a little more productive than just,
you know, Fortnite.
Yeah.
So I think I saw, Will,
you were into CrossFit.
I can see the CrossFit games for, you know,
ops people, for infrastructure people.
Oh yeah, for sure.
I'm sure no one ever heard
me say this before,
but what I've done with work,
what I want to do is go
home and play another game.
Play a game that's exactly
the same as what I do for work every day.
With higher stakes, potentially,
than what I'm doing at work.
Yeah.
I'm hoping people do that.
So far,
it seems like people are interested.
Yeah.
I think it's exciting.
I think it's like...
Well,
I'm going to make that a little
stronger statement.
I know that there are a lot
of people who are early in their career,
and DevOps is one of those
industries that it's so
hard to get into because
you can't get into DevOps
without having DevOps experience,
and you can't get DevOps
experience without working in DevOps.
And this actually gives you
a way to solve that problem.
That is Thursday's comic, by the way.
You have to have five years
of experience for this
entry-level job or whatever.
How do you have chicken and egg?
This might solve that problem, though,
you know?
Yeah, I mean,
I think it's sort of the same thing,
though,
where people don't leave the
university and go directly
into the executive role,
where realistically part,
I think one of the most
important aspects of DevOps
is sort of understanding
the connection of the
business and what you're
trying to execute and
running it and how that
impacts the technology and
what it actually means for
uptime and providing that as a
value add to whoever your
users or customers are.
And I think one of the huge
challenges there is that's
just not really something
you're taught in any level
of education system.
You don't go to your
chemistry class or your
physics or calculus and be
taught about how that
provides value to end users
somewhere and how critical that is.
I mean, because if you were,
then you could sort of
maybe make the jump there.
But I feel like that's one
of the biggest things,
the lack of experience,
but also the lack of
attention to how to utilize
those skills in a real-world environment.
And I think the email sent
out that has a business
impact starts to scratch that.
It's not just that there is
an emergency situation.
It could just be about a
debugging experience,
like how did this happen?
But understanding that there
is a real impact
to real customers somewhere
that someone will care and
money is getting lost.
I think that's the sort of
thing that a lot of people
are insulated throughout
their academic career.
Yeah,
that's the I see engineers making a
lot of decisions based on
ones and zeros and not dollars and cents.
I like that tagline, right?
I see it happening.
And as a business owner, I
I have to take into account
the bottom line.
Recently,
I had a major outage for one of
my clients right before the
holiday season, and we had a triage.
We actually had to decide to
have a bunch of different domains.
It's not Coke or Pepsi or anything,
but think about how Pepsi
owns Mountain Dew and it
owns KFC or whatever, it owns Taco Bell.
One of those,
Mr. Pibb was down and was causing
problems that rippled across
the whole system.
We had to triage that and say, listen,
we don't sell that much, Mr. Pibb.
Shut it down.
We don't care.
It's interesting.
We had to do that in real
time while firefighting.
That was a pretty exciting day.
Same type of concept I see
with the open source
software versus paying Amazon.
If you're a big company,
you've got thousands of
people and you can save
millions of dollars,
it makes sense to host your
own cluster of XYZ.
But if you're a smaller company and
The engineers are getting that, oh, yeah,
my man hours are being
wasted maintaining this thing,
and we're only getting an
ROI of one-third of what my
man hours are spent, you know,
what they're paying me to
maintain this cluster.
Then what are we doing it for?
You know,
so that's a very important skill that,
yeah, you're right,
I don't teach in schools.
Yeah, for sure.
I think it's something I've
said on this podcast at,
at least a billion times,
like no company cares about
how tight and compact and
efficient your Docker file is.
And because they only care
about what value it's
providing to the customers
who are paying money to that business.
And I think that's the
biggest career advice
anyone in this industry can
learn is your technical skills are
a tool used by the business.
They're not the product.
And to be clear,
I'm not saying there's one
right answer for the other.
You've got to take into
account the bigger picture and say,
you know, we're a company this size,
you know,
how much time should I be
spending on this?
Or is that moving the needle
for the company?
You know,
because you always got to pick what,
you know, is important there.
So I'm sorry,
I didn't mean to interrupt you.
No, I was done.
That was it.
I mean,
I think this goes in another
direction as well,
and I'm sort of curious your perspective,
Matt,
is that right now I know there's a...
Allegedly,
the job economy is not great for
knowledge workers,
and I'm curious if you see
particular opportunities in some way,
or really, how do you stand out?
Are there particular things
that do help engineers in
this area or throughout the
industry stand out compared to,
we talked about AI-generated resumes,
or other aspects that they
could really lay on?
Any thoughts on that?
Yes, tons.
The first thing is that I'm
actively talking to several
companies that are creating
large language models, LLMs,
to basically replace me and
my designs so they can just
put in words and then it
spits up Terraform and it goes.
They're not there yet.
They're a long way from it,
be able to maintain it,
but they'll get there.
That means I'm out.
That's my whole job there.
just like elevator operators
back in the day.
When was the last time you
saw an elevator operator?
Been quite some time.
So who wants to stand in a
hot box with people's
enclosed space like that,
especially after COVID and everything?
Oh my gosh, no.
So no more elevator operators,
but they need engineers to
maintain those things.
Those things fall apart.
That could be real bad for you.
So you've got to evolve.
That's something that I can't,
They're like, okay,
I'm going to be the one
typing in the code for the
CSS or pixel pusher.
And you're like, no,
you want to be a step above that.
And you want to find that next step.
So things I do to stand out, I mean,
I make sure they see my face.
I do a ton of content on stuff.
I try and, you know, basically, I mean,
I'll be honest with my content.
Sometimes I'm just reading in the news.
And that way they see my
face and they can recognize me there.
But that's something I
personally had to get over.
I'm an introvert, oddly enough.
I probably don't seem it,
but I introvert by nature,
extrovert by necessity.
So, you know,
don't be afraid to make
videos about stuff.
Some of my videos, one of my videos from,
this always bugs me,
but I did a video where I
was trilaborating Wi-Fi
signals in between projects
to track down printers and
different things just
because I was bored out of
my mind and I put it on YouTube.
And it's still one of my
most popular videos and I don't do that.
I have no cap, I have no,
So this stuff like that, you know,
the communication, that's a huge skill.
You need to, I mean,
even if you're typing into an LLM,
some guy in a suit is going
to come up and say, Hey,
we need this bigger picture thing.
And then you can sure go
ahead and type to our army
of LLMs and have it generated.
But if they can't do that prompt,
there's value to you doing that.
So find a way to bridge that
gap between human and machine.
It's just,
we're just changing the way that works,
you know?
So find ways to add value to other people.
That's one thing I obsess over.
Now that this tool here, my winners,
I'm going to send right to my clients.
They're like, you need a guy?
I need a girl.
I need a person, whatever.
Here you go.
This one just won.
This one solved my puzzle in
two seconds flat.
Yeah, that's what I would do.
Communicate.
That's it.
Give them a wide surface area.
Don't communicate the same
way everybody else does.
There's a reason I use pixel
art everywhere.
People remember it.
I love my clients' death.
They gamed as kids.
We're at the perfect age to game as kids.
They remembered
know mario bros and so they
see that and they remember
so stand out and and and
communicate you know
I love the perspective on
spend some time creating
content because it really
does resonate with the
there's only so much you
can do of practicing
LeetCode interviews or
learning a new programming language.
But really take that next
step of doing literally anything else.
If everyone's focusing on tech,
focus on creating content
or making some artwork or
using LLMs or whatnot or
hand-drawn or making comics
because that is some way
that you can really stand out.
You can put on your resume, oh yeah,
and also all of these comics are me.
This is something about me
that really stands out,
that's unique for who I am
compared to everyone else
who's trying to compete for the same job.
I think right now,
I think this is always true,
it's always now is the best
time to say even start your own company.
I see like a lot of resumes
are like practice projects
by engineers who are interested, like, oh,
I made a recommendation
engine or I made this other thing.
And the most important
question I always ask is,
why did you do that?
Like, what was your end goal here?
And it's like, oh,
I just wanted to do a project.
I'm like, OK, well,
that doesn't really mean anything to me.
You had no bounds, no, no restrictions,
no constraints on what you were doing.
You just went wherever you felt like it.
What's way more interesting is, oh,
I was actually trying to
make a business or I was
actually trying to automate my
my pictures being uploaded
to LinkedIn or whatever.
And like,
I had a real problem that I
actually needed to solve.
And this is how I went about solving it.
That's a way more
interesting thing to hear
as a potential interviewer.
So, you know, the content's great.
The web comics are great.
You know,
anything that really makes you
stand out as an individual.
Yeah.
Another thing that pops into
mind is the T skill set.
You know,
you don't want to be a generalist.
You know, if you can find a niche,
a niche that's in demand,
you know, then folks are,
I think my AWS niche for my
consulting business is too wide.
I'm trying to figure out how
to like zero that in.
Like maybe I'm just going to do WAF,
you know,
or now that I've got these trainings,
I'm probably going to focus on that.
But, you know,
I was thinking about just
being the WAF commander,
web application firewall,
because I fight DDoS
attacks all day long and I
could do a whole course on that.
I know we teach a whole course on that.
So, but yeah,
find a niche that's in demand
and dive on in and,
I've got a discord full of a
hodgepodge of brand
developers and they had
these really cool projects, but they,
that are niche and they,
they just don't showcase them.
And they tell you about it in Texas.
Like you've got cameras everywhere.
You're computing important screen,
just screen recorded and
show this cool project, you know,
off as much as you can.
Yeah.
It's definitely, um,
we're moving from like a
technical marketplace to a
creator marketplace.
And it's,
I think what both of you are
saying really highlights
that it's the technical
skills are the foundation,
but then as the creator,
you have to showcase and
market those to make you
stand out and then identify like,
here's the thing that I do
like on the T like you've
got the top line of the T
here where everyone has the
same skillset.
And then here's where I go deep.
Yeah.
I'm not saying don't, you know,
don't learn things outside your purview,
but don't make that your
public facing persona.
You know, you, I,
I know how to do a lot of things.
I could do WordPress to anybody ever,
but you know,
Because publicly,
I have a very particular
thing I talk about.
And you've got a very short
amount of time to get
people's attention right
now with all the spam and
garbage out there.
So you've got to figure out
a way to do that very
quickly and find people
that have your problem.
I solve million-dollar
problems for some of my clients.
Everybody find the
businesses that are
suffering from your stuff.
I mean,
I've got criteria that I use for
lead gen work.
They are, they run AWS.
Great.
You know,
I have a very specific size requirement.
I don't want to be too big.
Got an HR department.
You're probably bigger than
you don't need me.
And then if you've gone down
recently that I'm talking
to you because you've,
you've got the pain.
You've like,
if your site's slowing down
because you're growing too fast,
I want to talk to you right
away and you want to talk to me.
So if you have that criteria,
then it makes it so,
out to the Lambo Joe's that
doesn't have the need that
you can scratch.
You want to be like, this is your problem.
This is my expertise.
This is how I can solve that problem.
This is how I've solved it a
hundred times.
Case studies.
It's a big thing I'm working
on this year is getting
more case studies on my website.
Show them how you solve that
exact problem.
Put a coin in me, I'm going to keep going.
Yeah, definitely.
Now I'm going to ask you another question.
The sort of issues that you
see come up for each of
your customers and from your experience,
do you feel like they are
sort of repetitive in any way?
Like, oh, you've seen this problem before?
Or do you see that some of these problems,
they are actually nuanced
and new in some way that
you haven't experienced?
Yes and no.
The people problems I see,
That pops up quite a bit.
So I don't do a lot of
hands-on work for my clients.
I do advisory and oversight quite a bit.
So they pair me with a project manager,
and they say, we've got this problem.
We want to scale up to this thing.
I do a design,
and then I work with PM to
hand that off to other people to do.
So I train other people.
I see a lot of people
problems that are repetitive.
The technology problem, yes,
nine times out of ten,
it's a security group problem.
So that's true.
But with that said, past that,
there's always new technologies.
We're getting DDoSed in ways
I've never seen before.
It's quite fascinating.
Actually, if you guys will indulge me,
I've got one kind of more
prop like the game that you
guys might find interesting real quick.
I'm going to digitize this.
Oh, no, the spinners.
I lost the spinner.
Oh, well.
So you talk about repetitive stuff.
When I had some mid-level junior devs,
a lot of times they'd get
stuck on things and they'd be like,
I don't know what to do.
They'd come up to me and a
lot of times it became repetitive.
So I took the top like ten
or twenty things that,
I don't know how many things it is,
that was happening,
including check the security group,
you know,
and I put a spinner on this
thing and I said,
you can't bug me until
you've spun it at least, you know,
I think I said three times,
tried three different things.
I'm like,
you got to tell me you've already
checked the logs.
You've already,
I'm not going to explain
that abbreviation, but, um, yeah,
add more logging, you know?
So this is actually coming soon to, uh,
to cloud at war games.
Uh, for the beginners,
I won't take this away from
the advanced people.
This is like, you got a free spin,
you know, spin.
Yeah.
And, uh,
Exactly.
Phone a friend.
Ask your peer before you come asking me.
Like another junior might
actually have the solution
to work together, collaborate people.
And not just in the same company.
I find that,
especially above the senior level,
a lot of engineers haven't
realized that they can go
outside the company to
solicit assistance.
You don't need to pay someone,
but there are communities
out there that you can go to.
And it's so ridiculous to me that at SMBs,
small, medium businesses,
not giant modelists, the FANG companies,
etc.,
you know at smaller sizes
you just don't have anyone
that's more experienced
than you in the company you
have no one to mentor you
no one to sort of bounce
ideas off of and they're
like well what do I do and
I'm like well how many how
many discord servers are
you in like I'm like in
thirty or forty or
something like there are
those out there where
people you know are willing
to provide assistance if
you just ask the question
publicly and the idea that
they're just not even they
don't even see this as an
opportunity is like like
really great additional
source of valuable
information that you're missing out on
Yeah.
I mean,
that's part of the reason I am
starting a community for my
niche is that there's
absolutely people are, you know,
where do I go?
Where do I go?
I love that I've got these
communities I can go to
about my business and all
that other stuff.
But if you're an engineer and, you know,
for a smaller company at least,
and you're running on Amazon,
like there's probably no
one else that knows more
than you and you need answers.
And it's like, yeah, you take a course,
that you can bounce off
there's some additional
value to it so that's with
all the ai going on you can
just chat gpt all day but
you know to have somebody
else that actually breathes
and has a pulse that
understands your pain even
sometimes you just event to
about like oh it's the
security group for the
hundredth time why did I
make that mistake again you
know so uh I completely
agree with you I think
that's a huge value if
you're not in one of those
you know I would strongly recommend
Yeah.
And it seems like cloud war
games is going to be like a
foundation for helping you
identify those groups.
Cause you get in,
you start working with
people that you don't know.
And then you just start
chatting from there.
It looks like those are just
going to naturally form as
a result of this.
I would love that.
I hope, I hope there's some, cause you,
you do get some good
relationships that are formed in foxholes,
so to say, you're in the fire there.
It's like, you know, you, you, if,
if someone cracks under pressure, you know,
but yeah,
I've got some guys that I'm
pretty excited with because
we've sweated it out, you know,
in bad times.
And, you know, there's,
you'd be amazed how quickly
you forge those relationships.
Sorry.
Hopefully the audio is still good.
Well, I mean, the,
The worse the situation is,
the more interesting and honestly,
the thing that you can sort
of look back at later to sort of enjoy it,
the better the story it is that you can,
you know, walk through like, oh,
there was these decisions
that were made and there
were problems there.
And then and then you're
able to tell that story later.
Like,
it's a much better story if
everything just worked
right all the time.
Like your job would be
boring and you would leave
after when you retire and be like,
you didn't do anything.
But the fact you can look back and be like,
oh,
like there was one time the website
was down because someone
did this and it took forever.
Like that's a great story
that you can tell.
Yeah.
I tell my parents this stuff.
My mom's like, you know,
I don't know how you can
handle this stuff.
This sounds so bad.
I'm like, well,
if this stuff didn't go down occasionally,
we didn't get sorry.
We didn't get attacked like this.
then I wouldn't have a job.
So, you know, it's kind of like, that's,
there's, I find these kinds of outliers.
The problem is you design a
system that's so solid,
it doesn't go down.
So then they don't need you anymore.
But luckily the internet's
full of evil people attacking us.
So it gives me a job.
Sorry.
That sounds weird to say.
It's always opportunity somewhere.
Yeah.
right on so um you've been
you're literally just a
week into cloud war games
right less than a week but
yeah yeah what was the
trigger that made you
decide to to to start this
so I I had thought of it as
a side part for my kind of
community I was creating
because I I wanted to help
I'm trying my mission try
and find as many people
that I can add value to their lives
And, you know, some of my big clients,
you know, that's, that's great.
But what if a mom and pop
tiny little shop comes to
me and need something?
I can't offer them as much
one-on-one time.
So I was like, I'll,
I'll build a community and then they can,
you know,
share information just like
we've been talking about
and I can help more people
and it works out for all of us.
But then I was in the
mastermind group and I was like,
one of the events we're
going to do is the war gaming.
And they're like, no, no, no,
that's the front and center thing.
Like that's,
I can see companies hire you
just to go in and do war
games or all these other things.
And then,
They got me hyped up and I'm like,
I'll have it launched.
I'll have it launched by tomorrow.
And I said, I'll have it.
I'll have a post.
I'll have a video and I'll
have a landing page.
And I tied my hands because I,
in the same way with a, I was like,
no coding.
Okay.
You can't, no over-engineering.
Luckily I'm a horrible designer.
So I was like, I'm not going to design.
I'll just use a template.
And I set up just a convertkit.com,
this landing page.
And I used Calendly to
schedule the first couple
and I just wrote some emails there.
So no coding.
Cause I,
I do have a tendency to
over-engineer if I allow myself.
And so here we are Monday
morning and I had five
people signed up and now
it's doubled already.
It's over doubled since then.
So it's moving.
And then now I'm on this podcast.
So yeah,
that was just the mastermind group.
They focused me.
It really was good.
Just cut away the other stuff and focus,
you know?
yeah for sure that's like
another um benefit of that
is having people who will
well like you said just
focus you you know because
we tend to over engineer it
and you think oh man I've
got to have a website and I
need um a database to store
the people's information
and get their profiles and
I need authentication and
But honestly,
by having someone hold you
accountable to it,
you have the MVP in less
than five days without
having to do any of that
stuff that's not actually
going to test your idea or not.
Yeah.
And I will say there's also
some other factors here.
It's a hot dog business
being as I had all these
other ingredients just
sitting around like I
already have open source
Terraform scripts I manage.
And I used to run my entire
infrastructure and some of
my client stuff.
So I already had that.
And that's why I'm like, oh,
I could spin up a domain
that we can knock down.
Actually, I bought ExplodeMe.com yesterday,
which is gonna be where we attack.
So I can spin that up.
I mean, it's not quite ready yet,
but I can have it up in a few hours.
But all I gotta do is take
some of these scenarios
that I've got written down
and make them more formal.
I was trying to like hot dogs,
a bunch of other pieces of
meat that you got,
the little leavings of you
put them together and now
you got hot dogs and
baloney or whatever else.
So,
so that was uniquely that I was lucky
enough to have that,
fortunate enough to have that.
So.
Right on.
How long have you been in
the mastermind groups?
How long have you been doing that?
Yeah, on and off throughout the years,
but I, over the last two years,
I really went heads down.
I,
I hired a business coach and
I think it was twenty twenty two.
They didn't quite work out.
But then I found this solo
expertise one in twenty twenty three.
The beginning of that, that was great.
I actually ended up engaging
the founder of that for a
one on one coaching.
And we met yesterday.
It's phenomenal.
And I threw a parallel.
I found a parallel group
that was more hands off
small best dot com that
then I found another person
for another mastermind group.
that was more hands-on and I
jumped in with them and I
think I almost mentor them
as much as they mentor me
luckily at this point, but yeah,
that's what a mastermind group is.
So that's, that's been, uh,
it was about nine months
ago there and I'm looking
for more and I'm probably
going to start another one
in the next few weeks.
Well, maybe months,
I should say next few months,
I'm going to finish.
Right on.
Cool.
And then your, um,
your cartoons that you release,
where do you release those
at for anyone who wants to see those?
I have my mailing lists, my socials,
and then I push them.
If they're relative to Terraform,
I push them in those
Terraform groups here and there,
r slash Terraform.
If they're relevant,
r slash Programmer Humor,
that's where I launch a bunch of them.
Those are the ones where I
get the most views.
Yeah.
And there was one week when there was,
yeah, there was nevermind.
There was one that was
relevant to something we
said earlier that I just
came out last week,
but I don't think I can
connect the threads anymore.
So the one you sent that
cracked me up was the, um,
the Y two K one.
Cause I like, I know people that in,
they went into bunkers and
I've never seen them since.
And so pretty frequently I wonder like,
wow,
did they,
cause some of them were going to
stay in their bunkers for like,
ten or twenty years, and I was like,
did they stay?
Like, are they still alive?
What happened when they came out?
And I don't know where any of them are.
Yeah, I got to thinking, I was,
this could be an annual one,
cause this is actually a
release on the thirty-first of December,
but I got to thinking,
what's the dumbest thing
that you could go back into
a bunker and live your life
in hiding for?
Javascript everywhere?
What?
And they had a little bit of
a controversy to it because, you know,
of course,
there's like half the Internet
hates JavaScript and half
the Internet's like JavaScript.
Let's put it in everything.
Right.
That helped.
It definitely helped it go up the numbers.
Sure, sure.
I mean, if people,
I know about this controversy and I just,
I wonder if the people who
are against JavaScript will
be more in favor or against
whatever LLM generated
programming language the
whole world ends up
utilizing in the future.
I mean,
we'll be forced by our robot
overlords to use the one
true programming language,
whatever that is.
And I wonder if they'll be
okay with that or whether
or not they'll have wished
to go back to the days of
JavaScript and everything.
You just gave me an idea for a camera.
We're arguing about
JavaScript versus not JavaScript.
But what about,
we can all agree that
people that use no code
solutions are fools.
I think I probably get
pinned in the anti
JavaScript crowd a lot.
And I'm not, I'm not anti JavaScript.
Like the point I try to
drill in there is I,
that JavaScript's not always
the right answer.
You don't hire a carpenter
based on the type of hammer
that they use.
You hire them based on their
ability to build a garage
or a house or a fence or
whatever you are.
And I think JavaScript, to me, is a tool.
And so JavaScript's not
always the right answer.
So it's not that I'm against JavaScript.
I'm against saying
JavaScript is always the answer.
Yeah, I mean,
I was definitely in my life
on the like they're just
all the program language are tools.
But, you know,
I've definitely come more
around to the fact that
every single one of these
tools has some specific
quirks which change the
utility in the solution
space that we're in.
And so it actually is more
important that we evaluate
whether or not this tool, this language,
what it implies, how it works,
who the maintainers are,
what their mentality for
the long term is for the
type of solution that we're building.
And I feel like we're still
very much stuck in the fact
of whether or not people
sort of like the tool itself.
Like I like hammers,
I don't like hammers rather
than the the company that
manufactures the hammers is
who we should be evaluating.
Yeah.
From from my thoughts on JavaScript,
from a business standpoint are, you know,
it's probably a little dated now,
but back in,
let's just say the mid two thousand tens,
I can hide if you're going
to if you're going to write
PHP and have a website, you know,
you're going to need to
have JavaScript in the browser.
Right.
That's just you can't run
PHP in the browser.
Same thing with Java.
Same thing with a lot of things.
So a lot of these developers
that I was finding had some
amount of JavaScript background.
And I found that you can
repurpose that little bit
of JavaScript in the
browser to run server side
if you wanted to.
Much easier.
So it was more of a cost efficient thing.
I could take a PHP dev
that's full stack and make
them into a Node.js dev
without breaking the bank on that one.
With that said,
now with AI being a big thing,
it would be silly to try
and use to run neural
networks in JavaScript.
I know because I've tried it.
It's probably not a good idea.
So, but no, yeah, you can,
so you're right.
You got to pick the right tool for the job,
but it was strictly on like a,
who could I, you know,
we can cast a wider net and
hire people that have
JavaScript experience and, you know,
so we can get a wider range
of people coming in,
better applicants and
ideally a better outcome.
So that was, that's that business,
you know, numbers,
you got to kind of do that
calculus as well.
But again, you're right.
Not the right tool for AI,
not the right tool for a lot of things.
Yeah,
but it might be the right tool for
your business because you
just need a versatile
programmer who can get shit done.
Yeah.
If I'm hiring for the top Python devs,
a lot harder to figure out
how to hire those guys than just,
you know, top Java devs.
For sure.
So for people who want to go
check out Cloud War Games,
cloudwargames.com.
Cloudboardgames.com.
Yep, that's where you find me.
This is the time where I'm
supposed to kind of tell
you all the different things.
I was trying to tee it up to
let you plug the website,
but then I just plugged the
website for you and stole
the answer out from under you.
I butchered it.
For the release of the
episode on the website,
adventureindevops.com,
there'll be a bunch of
blurbs along with whatever
links you want us to post there.
So if you want to just
respond to us after the podcast,
all of the things that
we've talked about in this episode,
for anyone who's interested,
we'll all be listed there.
Sure.
Okay.
Well, yes,
cloudwargames.com is where you
can find that.
Schematical.com,
that's the word schematic
with AL at the end,
is where you can find most of my writing,
schematical.com.
And soon,
I haven't announced this publicly.
This is the first time I'm announcing it.
I actually just spent the
last three months of my
life building a video
course for O'Reilly's,
the publishing company.
No, it's an on-demand video course.
They wanted me to say on-demand.
On-demand video course for
O'Reilly Publishing.
And so that will be live, hopefully,
by the next two weeks or so,
maybe by the time this comes out.
So if you want to learn Zero
to Hero on AWS Security and
Animated Guide to Security in the Cloud,
that will be there.
Um, so if I'm over-plugging this,
feel free to cut it, but, uh,
I'm super interested in this.
So now this is a,
an animated course on AWS security.
Yes.
Yes, it is.
Actually, if you, if you want,
I've got a diagram here that I queued up.
Okay.
We can cut this if you want, but, uh,
if you guys want, I'm actually,
we can play a micro round
of cloud war games right now.
Let's do it.
Can I present here?
share screen share screen so
this right here you guys
tell me if you could see it
we can now anyone listening
to the podcast can't so I'm
going to narrate it for
them okay here we go all
right we have our
infrastructure here this is
a network map all right and
we've got a user right here
so this I'm going to go as
fast as I can because I know we're
I want to be respectful of your time,
but a request come in,
hits the application load balancer,
hits the application server,
then your shopping cart,
so I should set the tone,
e-commerce store.
You're running an e-commerce store here.
The shopping cart's stored in Redis.
So they say, hey,
I want to buy this thing.
It goes into Redis,
goes back to the application layer,
and now they've added it to their cart.
And...
Let's just say that they
actually go to make a purchase.
It's the application server.
We're doing event-driven architecture.
Oh, oh, oh, oh,
maybe it's not the right one.
All right,
we're gonna forget about the
animation for now.
Event-driven architecture
pumped into Kinesis.
That updates the database
saying a purchase was made.
It updates the inventory
management software.
It updates the product
worker which charges them
and updates the mail
service and all that stuff there.
All right,
I'm getting to the details here.
Here's the scenario, okay?
Customer service comes to you and says,
We are getting reports that
people are missing stuff in their cart.
They're adding stuff to
their cart and all of a
sudden when they go to checkout,
it's not there.
They go to another page, it's not there.
All right, what do we do?
So I'm going to highlight this real quick.
We're looking at an animated
diagram of an AWS environment, right?
And is this part of the
Cloud Wars games interface?
It will be.
It's not actually,
this is running locally
right now because I've
never bothered to put it on a website,
but it'll be up eventually.
I'll use it locally if I have to for now.
Right on.
Okay,
so there's stuff missing from their cart.
I'm assuming that the cart
is persisted somewhere in
some data store somewhere?
That is correct.
It is in Redis.
Right on.
So do we have a way to check
the logs on Redis or check
the whatever is writing logs to Redis?
It's running on ElastiCache.
ElastiCache does have events.
I don't know if you can get
directly to the logs there,
but you can log into Redis
and run some stuff.
You've got metrics too.
Don't forget you do have
CloudWatch metrics.
I guess the first question is like,
is the data in the database
where it's supposed to be?
If we're using Redis,
like Redis Commander or
something to tell us
whether or not the items
are actually in the shopping cart store.
Yeah.
So you go in there, you've got,
let's call it a hundred
thousand keys and you look at it,
there is data in there.
You can,
I wouldn't do this step for you normally,
but I'm going to do it just
because I'm going to speed things along.
You go in there and you try
and add things to your cart.
Of course,
Does the cart for the
customer who's complaining,
are you able to have a
session for that that you
can track to check to see
if there are actual items
for that session in the cart?
So this is where I want to
go like a five-sided die.
Do you have a
technical-minded customer or not?
Okay, you just rolled.
Do you have a technical-minded customer?
They can open up their
browser and copy the cookie
for the session and send it to you.
And so, yes, you have their session.
I mean,
I always assume they're not a
technical customer.
And so you try to get them
to purchase some fake item
in the cart that only,
only their session will,
will have access to a magic URL.
Right.
That allows you to attract it.
Yeah.
I love that.
I was just being nice
because we don't want to be
for the sake of time, but yes,
I love that solution.
This is the type of solution, but I didn't,
I wouldn't have thought of that.
I would have thought this is
the type of stuff you can
get with these type of games.
Well,
we got to debug this stuff for real
all the time at our company.
I mean, we're not e-commerce,
but we do login and access control.
And so it's always a point of contention,
like why didn't this user
have access to this
resource at this particular moment?
And so figuring that out
requires a bunch of things.
So we have ways to give our
customers information that
they can inject into their environment
when they're performing the
sort of investigation that
we can see on our side so
that we can highlight
exactly which traces make sense.
Otherwise, you know,
you're looking at all of
the data for every customer
in order to narrow that down.
Yeah.
So, I mean,
you said technical customer or
some magic solution.
And are we getting their
items in the cart or is
their session busted?
You check the session
against the red state of
the session key there.
Items are gone.
Not there.
There's nothing there.
There's nothing for that key.
Key's gone.
So you mentioned ElastiCache.
I'm assuming that wasn't
just randomly throwing out words.
Where's that at in this pipeline?
Redis running on AWS is ElastiCache.
I just don't have.
ElastiCache is a service
that runs value key stores.
Okay.
I got a couple different ones,
but I picked Redis.
It's my go-to.
Gotcha.
Understood.
So they put something through the browser,
in the cart, never made it up,
never made it into Redis.
Who's responsible for sending it to Redis?
To clarify, so just
Again, I'm giving you way too much here.
I never said it didn't make
it into Redis in the first place,
just to be clear.
Or it just got deleted instantaneously.
By the time it gets to the cart,
by the time you look at it,
it's no longer there.
So there could be some sort
of TTL on the items that
are going into the cart or
some other process that's
eliminating them from Redis.
Or, of course,
not getting there in the first place.
Yeah.
So just to speed us along,
I'm going to drop what I
would give as a hint.
that you do have cloud watch logs for, uh,
for Reddit.
So you could ask me what they are saying.
Well, what are the logs saying?
So number of items is pretty
number of items went up, but flatlines.
Okay.
CPU usage is fine.
Um,
number of evictions is up quite a bit
evictions.
Oh, so they got, they got evicted.
Um,
Yep.
And then I guess the usable
memory dropped.
So again, I'm going to simulate this.
I wasted one of my real juicy ones,
but I guess it's probably good here.
So yeah, evictions are up.
So what's the solution there?
So I don't use Redis a whole lot.
So obviously,
it seems like Redis evicted
for some reason because it
either has like a max
number of key values that
it can store or it ran out of space.
Yep, that is correct.
It just runs out of data.
You can set eviction policies,
but in this case,
I think the default is to
just start evicting the older ones.
And so that's what happens is they,
it filled up.
Maybe it was a big shopping day, you know,
and you didn't expect this much,
this many people to put
stuff in the cart.
And so it filled up more.
I mean, it's, again,
I'm going to just kind of
speed through this,
but possibly you could look
at it and some change made
the payload of each key
Instead of just the product
IDs and quantities,
we're caching the metadata
and the products.
For some reason,
somebody accidentally
messed up and put that in there.
And now it's just bloated.
So the fix would  I'll let
you guys present the fix if
you guys have anything there.
I know I've told you the problem.
I think the emergency fix is
increase the size of Redis
so that we  That's
probably what I would do.
And then the long-term fix
would be to fix the bug
that had them catch all that stuff.
Actually happened once.
Actually happened.
They had to cache a bunch of
HTML in there that was like, I'm like,
this is a JSON object with HTML in it.
Like, what are you doing here?
Stop caching that stuff in this thing.
But it happened.
So, yeah.
All right.
Congratulations.
action report and so on and so forth.
So, yeah, I mean, this is great.
I'm actually sort of curious
on the scenario is,
is using Redis as a
temporary store for the cart,
a common pattern in e-commerce stores.
When at early stage.
Yeah.
So a lot of my clients, you know,
I love them to death
clients understand they, you know, they,
they start off with
something simple like
WordPress and then they
start slapping more things in there.
Not the way I would do it,
Now, the way I would do it is, I mean,
there's a lot of data you
can extract from carts.
It's not ephemeral data.
You'd want to know who's adding what, when,
where.
You can send a reminder, emails,
all that stuff.
But with devs,
a lot of times it's just
stuff everything in the
session and then pray.
Yeah, I mean,
I get I get the perspective
of knowing that it's temporary data.
It's not the order hasn't
been created yet.
So storing it in a data
store that may not be persistent.
I also get the idea that
people believe that Redis
is this non ephemeral data
store and you know,
go ahead and use it as your
source of truth database.
But in the mature businesses, as you said,
you actually don't even
want to throw away that session data.
As soon as you have it,
you might as well be
persisting it for
permanency so that you can evaluate,
why didn't that convert to
an actual order?
Why didn't that person come back?
And then once they do
actually click buy and
payment gets processed,
you don't need to convert
it from your temporary data
store into a permanent one.
You already have it there.
The payment is sort of separate.
I'm actually trying to get
you to exactly what you're
describing for the video I
did on Amazon Glue and
putting that data in a
long-term cold source,
basically telling people
the difference between a source of truth,
ephemeral, and long-term red shifter,
big data analytics tools, data warehouse,
data lake type situation.
This is one of your videos
that's going on on demand on O'Reilly?
No, that's my YouTube
I'm going to stop sharing
since I didn't prepare for that one.
Will's gone dark for me.
He's got no camera on.
He's hiding from the public.
Oh, and anonymous.
Yeah.
I mean,
I think this is a good point to
maybe wrap up the episode,
unless there's anything,
last words you want to
share about Cloud WarGames
or your consultancy.
No,
I want to thank you both for being the
first participants
It's somewhat an unofficial capacity there,
but thank you both for
being the first participants.
I know we kind of played a
micro around there,
but I invite you once I get
this thing moving,
I'd invite you guys to come
and participate.
And if you guys are game,
maybe I come back and run a
full length game with you
guys or something of that nature.
So it's just throwing that
out there if you're interested.
That'd be a blast and would
love to have you back on at any time.
For that,
and there's a bunch of other
topics we like touched on
here that I think would be
cool to dig deeper on.
Yeah, for sure.
I'm all in.
It would be my pleasure.
You let me know when and I'll, you know,
another guest drops out, come find me.
We'll do.
With that, should we move on to picks,
Will?
We should.
Ah, man.
Words are hard.
Yeah, right?
Just like to take this
opportunity to point out to
everyone that English is my
native language and I still screw it up.
You should see me editing my videos.
A lot of swearing.
For sure.
I used to do quite a few
YouTube videos and did some
video courses and stuff.
And my wife would always
give me a hard time.
She would say,
I can always tell how it's
going by how many cuss
words I can hear coming out
of your office.
Then at one point I made
like a blooper reel where I
just took all the cuss
words that I cut out of all my videos.
And it was like an eight
minute stream of just some
of the most offensive
language that has ever been recorded.
Yeah.
All right.
Anyway, on to pics.
Warren, you brought it up,
so I'll go first.
A couple of weeks ago,
I picked Kunk on Earth,
the Netflix special.
I think that was when we had AJ Funk on.
He said that there was a new
one called Kunk on Life.
I watched that,
and I thought Kunk on Earth
was so great that there
would be no way a follow-up
to it could be as entertaining as
And I'm happy to tell you
that I was wrong on so many levels.
So Kunk on Life,
go check that out on Netflix.
Just the sense of humor
there and the dryness of
that sense of humor had me
just rolling on the floor laughing.
Just absolutely amazing.
And they accidentally made
it educational as well.
So go check that out.
Well,
I definitely will because I liked all
of the other series by Philomena.
Yeah.
I guess that's her stage
name and not the actress's name.
Mine is... I guess I also have a show.
I read the books,
Three-Body Problem by Leo Tsichin.
This is actually one of the
scenarios where I actually
like the series better.
I think the series is
absolutely fantastic.
Some of the books are good,
but the series...
absolutely really well done
uh I really look forward to
the follow-up seasons um if
you haven't seen it or read
the books I highly
recommend there's a lot of
good philosophical ideas
that are brought up okay
give me the high level of
what it's about because I'm
just assuming from the
title three body problem
this is how to get away
with murdering someone but I may be wrong
No,
it actually has to do with the
unsolvability of finding
out without the initial
conditions what the path
and orientation of a solar
system with three masses in it is.
Ah, okay.
That's not going to be as
useful to me as I thought
it was at first.
Without spoiling really that much,
one of the very close solar
systems in our galaxy in
the Milky Way to our solar
system is one with three stars in it.
It's science fiction, really good,
philosophical dilemmas,
absolutely fantastic, well done.
Is that the Alpha Centauri system?
That you're referring to?
Yeah.
Because they originally
thought it was one star and
then found out that it was
two binary stars in orbit
with another star close by, I think.
Yeah.
It's four light years away.
Right.
Just across the street.
Yeah.
So, Matt, what do you got for us?
Yes.
you got all this Einstein stuff.
I did not come prepared for that.
I got the comic book,
Scott Pilgrim versus the world.
Nice.
Yeah.
They do a lot of pixel art
in there and I've been doing,
and I've been dropping them
on my desk and I've been doing a lot of,
um, comic book stuff.
So I'm like, okay,
this would be a good thing to pick up.
And I'm trying to look at
screens less before bed.
So I've been, uh,
just reading through this lately.
Um,
Yeah, not quite as big,
as interesting as the three-body problem,
but it helps me go to sleep.
What was that last thing that you held up?
Scott Pilgrim vs. the World.
That's volume one, volume two.
I see.
I didn't know it was a
written work of art.
Yeah, I believe that's how it started,
and then I think they made
the video game and then the movie.
Interesting.
But the video game,
the art for that is a guy named
Paul Robinson, I think,
perhaps G or whatever.
And he's just a phenomenal pixel artist.
And I just, I,
my work doesn't come close
to his and I got a style
that I could do in two seconds,
but he spends like years
building these amazing animations.
It's phenomenal.
So.
Right on.
Cool.
Well, Matt,
thanks again for coming on the show.
This has been a blast and we
will definitely have you back on.
For everyone else,
check out cloudwargames.com.
And anywhere else that you hang out,
you hang out on like X, LinkedIn,
any of that kind of stuff.
You can find me most of
those places at Schematical.
I try and grab it anywhere I can.
Okay.
Yeah.
So check it out on Schematical.
And thanks for listening.
And we'll see everyone next week.